# Automatic-Forest-Classification-GEE
Supplementary material for the article "Automatic classification of forests using Sentinel-2 multispectral satellite data and machine learning methods in Google Earth Engine"

The main objective of this paper was image classification, focusing on forest class classification using Machine Learning classification algorithms. In this paper, we also developed a tool in GEE that allows automatic classification of forest cover using Sentinel-2 satellite imagery. The great advantage of the developed tool and the GEE platform is the possibility for users to change the input parameters according to their own requirements and also the possibility to modify parts of the code for their own needs. The developed tool was created using JavaScript using the Code Editor interface in GEE and is available in this GitHub repository.

**How to use the tool:**
In the first step, the user of the tool chooses for which area of interest he wants to process the automatic classification of forest cover. In this step it is possible to select any EU country according to the LSIB 2017 database or a selected region from the XX database. This is limited for the EU territory due to the fact that the CLC database is used in the preparation of the training data, which only covers the EU countries. In the next step, the user needs to select for which year he wants to create the analysis. Currently it is possible to select the years 2017 to 2022. The restriction to 2022 is due to the availability of data in the GFC database. It is also possible to set the range of months from which to draw the data to create a median composite for the whole area of interest. It is also possible to set an upper limit on the percentage cloud coverage of Sentinel-2 imagery. Another advantage of the developed tool is the possibility to select any number of training samples, which will then be automatically input into the image classification. Advanced users can also correct parts of the code with the input data settings, which in our case were the Sentinel-2 satellite datasets, the input bands and the spectral indices created from them (e.g., NDVI), and other additional inputs to the classification (e.g., SRTM).

Other parts of the tool run the methodology described in this paper, i.e. automatic generation of training data using CLC2018 and GLC penetration, supervised classification using RF using the generated training data. The following layers are displayed in the map window: the median composite of the Sentinel-2 time series data in true RGB colours, the median composite of NDVI, SRTM, GLC database, CLC2018, their penetration and the resulting classification for the whole region of interest. In the right tab "Tasks" the classified result can be downloaded as GeoTiff to Google Drive or exported as a so-called Asset to GEE.

All the code used in the creation of the paper, including the comparison of classification algorithms, the accuracy evaluation and the validation points used, is also available in this GitHub repository - refer to the folder "article-processing-codes".
